What is API ?
    API Stands for application programming Interface 

    it Acts as a two-way communication bridge between Front-end and Backend 


What is REST API ?
    REST Stands for Representational State Transfer

    it organizes how web applications talk to each other , separating what the 
    user sees (Frontend) from what runs behind the scenes (Backend)


Core principle of REST 

    -stateless:
        the server doesn't store any information about the client between requests

    -client-server Architecture 
        the app (client) asks for things (data) and the server does what's requested (sends data or makes changes )




    Standardized Interface

    ResT api rely on set of Standard methods for interacting with (GET,POST,PUT,DELETE) resources

    GET - retrieving the resources

    POST - creating the resources 

    PUT  - updateing the resources

    DELETE - deleting the resource

What is Endpoint   

    API Endpoints
    return the data to integrate into the frontend 

    Webapp Endpoint 
    User can directly access it from the web browsers

Core principle of REST 
    Easy to read Data   


WHat is serializer 

    serializer helps to convert complex data from database
    into an formet that can Easyly share over the internet 
    like json or xml 

WHat is Dserilizer 

    the deserilizer means the data recived in json formet 
    and we have the store it into model incetance 



FUnction based view 
    fatching data from database using functions
    1. create sirializer.py file 
    2. create -> sirializer.sirializerModel class ->  in that add class meta then add model name 
    for which we have to create the serializer AND select filds we want in our serializer

    3. then create function in views.py get data -> pass that data in serializer class 
    4. do the operation 
    5. return the responce
    6. and last and important add api_view(['GET','POST']) to get api view

    7. we can fatch specific specific record using Primary key from data base in url -> 'employees/<int:pk>'

CLass based views

    fatching data from database using class with multiple methods 

    APIView,
    mixins,
    generics,
    viewSet,
    modelviewset

    1.Apiview is basic and traditional method to use it has class name which is inharited by APIView class and then
        it consist of functions like get,post,put,delete,

    2.Mixins provide Standard built in CURD operation
        1. .ListmodelMixin -> list() handls the list of multiple instances
        2. .Createmodelmixin -> Create() createing new model incetance 
        3, ,Retrievemodelmixin -> retrieve() action to fatching a single model incetance
        4, ,Updatemodelmixin -> update() action to modifying existing model incetance
        5, ,Destroymodelmixin -> delete() action to delete the existing model incetance

    3.generics its provides the same functionality as mixins provide but in minimal the code 
        
         eg to get list of all model incetance

            class employees(generics.listapiview)
                query_set = employees
                serializer = employees_serializer 
                lookup_field = 'pk'

    4.Viewset A ViewSet class is simply a type of class-based View, that does not provide any method handlers such as 
             .get() or .post(), and instead provides actions such as .list() and .create().

             this require router setup

    5. modelviewset it can provide all the CRUD operation functionality in very minimal code as generic api view 
        simply mentioning the query_set , serializerclass , and lookup_field

    



    
    










